INSTALL.md, before:

# Installing reveal-skel

## Intro
[reveal-skel](https://github.com/sermons/reveal-skel)
is a forkable template for a presentation based on the [Reveal.js](http://lab.hakim.se/reveal-js/) HTML framework.

[Travis integration](.travis.yml) deploys to Github Pages via an [NPM script](package.json), calling a [Grunt task](Gruntfile.coffee) to copy the rendered site
into a subdir and push to the gh-pages branch.

## Usage
* **Fork** this project
  + Or `git remote add upstream https://github.com/sermons/reveal-skel`
* Setup a **deploy key** for Travis (see below)
* **Edit** [package.json](package.json):
  + Package name, git repo, cname/URL
  + Change `sample.md` to `slides.md`
  + Generate a new **multiplex ID** (see below)
* Put your slide **content** in [slides/slides.md](slides/slides.md)
* You may also want to customize:
  + user name, email in [package.json](package.json)
  + [README](README.md) 
  + [favicon](static/img/favicon.ico)
* Static **assets** (CSS, JS, images, etc) go in [`static`](static)
  + Grunt will copy this dir as-is to the deployed site

## Deploy key for Travis
+ Make sure Travis is **aware** of your repo:
  + **Connect** [Travis](https://travis-ci.org) to your Github account, if you haven't already
  + "**Sync Account**" if necessary
  + **Enable builds** on your repo
+ Create a new SSH **keypair**: `ssh-keygen -f deploy_key`
+ On Github, in your repo: Settings &rarr; Deploy Keys &rArr; **Add**
  + Title: "Travis push to gh-pages", or whatever you like
  + Paste the contents of the SSH **public** key: `deploy_key.pub`
  + Check the box for "*Allow write access*"
+ [Install](https://github.com/travis-ci/travis.rb#installation) the Travis **gem**, if you haven't before:
  + `apt-get install ruby-dev`, or similar
  + `gem install travis`
+ **Encrypt** the SSH private key [using Travis](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/encrypting-files/):
  + Within your repo: `travis encrypt-file deploy_key .travis/deploy_key.enc`
    + You might need to **authenticate** Travis to Github
  + Update the decryption **environment variables** (`$encrypted_*_key` and `$encrypted_*_iv`) in `.travis.yml`
  + **Move** the unencrypted private key outside your repo:
    + `mv deploy_key* ~/.ssh/`
+ **Push**, and check the [build log](https://travis-ci.org/) for errors:
    + You should see Travis [decrypt the deploy key](.travis.yml), then
    + it will run `npm run deploy`, which uses a [Grunt task](Gruntfile.coffee) to push to the gh-pages branch

## Bot user for Travis deploy
If you want finer-grained access control, or want to reuse the same
deploy key on multiple repos, you may want to create a **special user**
just for pushing to gh-pages.  This is what I do:

+ Create a new Github **user** (a 'bot')
+ Create a SSH **keypair** and add the public key to the bot's account:
  "*Settings*" (Personal Settings) &rarr; "*SSH and GPG keys*"
+ Add the bot as a **collaborator** on your repo:
  "*Settings*" &rarr; "*Collaborators &amp; teams*" &rarr; "*Collaborators*"
  + Give the bot **Write** access so it can push
  + Or: add the bot to an [organization](https://developer.github.com/guides/managing-deploy-keys/#machine-users)
+ **Prevent** the bot from pushing to master:
  + "*Settings*" &rarr; "*Branches*" &rarr; "*Protected branches*" &rarr; "*master*"
  + Check "*Protect this branch*" and "*Restrict who can push to this branch*"
  + Now the bot can **only** push to gh-pages
+ You don't need any **repo-specific** deploy keys now
+ You **still** need to `travis encrypt` the private key for each new repo
  + The symmetric decryption keys are stored in Travis **environment vars**, which are repo-specific
  + If you tell Travis to use the same **Key** and **IV**, you can reuse the encrypted deploy key file

## Multiplex (remote-control)
Don't use the default multiplex socket ID in the template, or your presentation
can be controlled by anyone with the corresponding secret
key (which I've made public).  You could get random slide changes.

If you want to setup your own remote control, you'll need a multiplex
server.  You may use [mine](https://mp.seanho.com/)  (please let me know if you do), or just setup
[your own](https://github.com/seanho00/reveal-multiplex). on a VPS.

Get a [token](https://mp.seanho.com/token) from the multiplex server, and
put the socket ID in your `package.json`.
Run the master presentation by appending `/?s=00SECRET00` to your URL
(replacing `00SECRET00` with your secret key).

## Thanks
+ [generator-reveal](https://github.com/slara/generator-reveal) Yeoman script
+ [gist-reveal](https://github.com/ryanj/gist-reveal)
+ [Reveal.js](http://lab.hakim.se/reveal-js/)

Commit message:

script to automate Travis encryption

INSTALL.md, after:

# Installing reveal-skel

## Intro
[reveal-skel](https://github.com/sermons/reveal-skel)
is a forkable template for a presentation based on the [Reveal.js](http://lab.hakim.se/reveal-js/) HTML framework.

[Travis integration](.travis.yml) deploys to Github Pages via an [NPM script](package.json), calling a [Grunt task](Gruntfile.coffee) to copy the rendered site
into a subdir and push to the gh-pages branch.

## Usage
* **Fork** the [reveal-skel](https://github.com/sermons/reveal-skel) project
  + Or `git remote add upstream https://github.com/sermons/reveal-skel`
* Setup a **deploy key** for Travis (see below)
* **Edit** [package.json](package.json):
  + Package name, git repo, cname/URL
  + Change `sample.md` to `slides.md`
  + Generate a new **multiplex ID** (see below)
* Put your slide **content** in [slides/slides.md](slides/slides.md)
* You may also want to customize:
  + user name, email in [package.json](package.json)
  + [README](README.md) 
  + [favicon](static/img/favicon.ico)
* Static **assets** (CSS, JS, images, etc) go in [`static`](static)
  + Grunt will copy this dir as-is to the deployed site

## Deploy key for Travis
+ **Connect** [Travis](https://travis-ci.org) to your Github account, if you haven't already
+ Create an SSH **keypair**: `ssh-keygen -f ~/.ssh/deploy_key`
+ On Github, in your repo: Settings &rarr; Deploy Keys &rArr; **Add deploy key**
  + **Title**: e.g., "Travis push to gh-pages"
  + **Key**: Paste the contents of the SSH **public** key (`deploy_key.pub`)
  + Check the box for "*Allow write access*"
+ [Install](https://github.com/travis-ci/travis.rb#installation) the Travis **gem**
  + See note in the [travis-key script](.travis/travis-key) for details
+ Run `.travis/travis-key` to **encrypt** the SSH private key 
  [using Travis](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/encrypting-files/):
  + You might need to **authenticate** Travis to Github
  + Update the decryption **environment variables** (`$encrypted_*_key` and `$encrypted_*_iv`) in `.travis.yml`
+ **Push**, and check the [build log](https://travis-ci.org/) for errors

## Bot user for Travis deploy
If you want finer-grained access control, or want to reuse the same
deploy key on multiple repos, you may want to create a **special user**
just for pushing to gh-pages.  This is what I do:

+ Create a new Github **user** (a 'bot')
+ Create a SSH **keypair** and add the public key to the bot's account:
  "*Settings*" (Personal Settings) &rarr; "*SSH and GPG keys*"
+ Add the bot as a **collaborator** on your repo:
  "*Settings*" &rarr; "*Collaborators &amp; teams*" &rarr; "*Collaborators*"
  + Give the bot **Write** access so it can push
  + Or: add the bot to an [organization](https://developer.github.com/guides/managing-deploy-keys/#machine-users)
+ **Prevent** the bot from pushing to master:
  + "*Settings*" &rarr; "*Branches*" &rarr; "*Protected branches*" &rarr; "*master*"
  + Check "*Protect this branch*" and "*Restrict who can push to this branch*"
  + Now the bot can **only** push to gh-pages
+ You don't need any **repo-specific** deploy keys now
+ You **still** need to `travis encrypt` the private key for each new repo
  + The symmetric decryption keys are stored in Travis **environment vars**, which are repo-specific
  + If you tell Travis to use the same **Key** and **IV**, you can reuse the encrypted deploy key file

## Multiplex (remote-control)
Don't use the default multiplex socket ID in the template, or your presentation
can be controlled by anyone with the corresponding secret
key (which I've made public).  You could get random slide changes.

If you want to setup your own remote control, you'll need a multiplex
server.  You may use [mine](https://mp.seanho.com/)  (please let me know if you do), or just setup
[your own](https://github.com/seanho00/reveal-multiplex). on a VPS.

Get a [token](https://mp.seanho.com/token) from the multiplex server, and
put the socket ID in your `package.json`.
Run the master presentation by appending `/?s=00SECRET00` to your URL
(replacing `00SECRET00` with your secret key).

## Thanks
+ [generator-reveal](https://github.com/slara/generator-reveal) Yeoman script
+ [gist-reveal](https://github.com/ryanj/gist-reveal)
+ [Reveal.js](http://lab.hakim.se/reveal-js/)
